Memes2Dreams is a unique way to encourage users to create and share meaningful content on social media and improve ethical behavior on the web. Many of us attempt to uninstall social media apps but are never able to quit them completely. We decided to turn the user’s experience on these apps into something more positive and use Twitter as a tool to increase peoples’ awareness about social issues.

In the United States, the average person spends 144 MINUTES A DAY on social media, half of which is spent on browsing irrelevant content, like memes. At the same time, many people are also not aware of the social issues around them. How can we reduce time spent on browsing meaningless content on social media? How can we increase our awareness of the social issues around us by using social media platforms more wisely?

Keeping the user in mind was the key objective in designing the frontend for Memes2Dreams. Knowing how Chrome extensions can be annoying or even outright intrusive, we wanted the user to have intuitive and meaningful interactions with the extension. 

The UI is slick, cohesive, neutral, and easy on the eyes. The color scheme (muted purples and greyscale) is relaxed yet contemporary and appeals to the younger generation, which is more likely to engage with memes on social media. Much attention was put into the fine-tuned details, such as the responsiveness of the buttons, an overflow check for the keyword inputs, the minimal logo design, and the use of the chart.js Javascript library for sleek and simple data visualization. 

Before programming, the team defined, drafted, and finalized user goals, user flow, and user pain-points; this way, we have a clear idea of what aspects of the UX to develop and accentuate. For example, our pop-ups are designed to be as unobtrusive as possible: they only appear when they need to (i.e. when the user browses too many memes). In addition, any time a new page is loaded (whether for the report or for the news popup), elements are placed for easy viewing and access. Also, the pop-up alerts coerce the user to browse fewer memes--lest they receive more notifications about their unproductive time--and eventually the “new post” feature makes it simple for the user to share something meaningful and pertinent to themselves and their community. Ultimately, the user interface is designed for users to reflect on the time they spend on social media, and hopefully convert some of that lost time to create meaningful content. 

The NewsAPI API was an invaluable resource for fetching the articles that the users are eventually encouraged to post. We used NewsAPI with their “everything” endpoint, meaning that a call to the API would return all articles logged in their database given certain parameters, like content, content in title, country of news outlet, data published, and so on and so forth. Next, we used promise chains to fetch a .json file from the API and then extract information from the articles. The specific metrics extracted from the .json file were the URL link to the news, the URL link to the article’s image, and the article’s headline. For a given article, these data points are stored in a 3-array which is then stored into a larger array filled with articles about the topics the user cares about, and when the user looks at too many memes, Memes2Dreams returns the information in the array onto the “new post” page. 

Overall, we achieved a user-friendly Chrome extension with implications in social good and productivity. We hope our users are compelled to demonstrate good behavior and to support the causes they stand behind. 
